deployment/heroku.rst, before:

heroku
++++++

`heroku <http://www.heroku.com/>`_ recently added `support for a process model
<http://blog.heroku.com/archives/2011/5/31/celadon_cedar/>`_ which allows
deployment of Pyramid applications. 

This recipe assumes that you have a pyramid app setup using a Paste INI file,
inside a package called 'myapp'. This type of structure is found in the
pyramid_starter scaffold, and other Paste scaffolds (previously called project
templates). It can be easily modified to work with other Python web
applications as well by changing the command to run the app as appropriate.

Step 0: Install heroku
======================

Install the heroku gem `per their instructions
<http://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/quickstart>`_.

Step 1: Add files needed for heroku
===================================

You will need to add the following files with the contents as shown to the
root of your project directory (the directory containing the setup.py).

``requirements.txt``:

You can autogenerate this file by running:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ pip freeze > requirements.txt

You will have probably have a line in your requirements file that has your project name in it. It might look like either of the following two lines depending on how you setup your project. If either of these lines exist, delete them.

.. code-block:: text

    project-name=0.0
         or 
    -e git+git@xxxx:<git username>/xxxxx.git....#egg=project-name

.. note::
    You can only use packages that can be installed from pypi. If you have any others that you checked out via git, or locally you will have to include these in your ``run`` file (see below). Never include these editable references when deploying to heroku.


``Procfile``:

Generate this by running:

.. code-block:: bash
    
    $ echo "web: ./run" > Procfile

``run``:

Create ``run`` with the following:

.. code-block:: text
    
    #!/bin/bash
    python setup.py develop
    python runapp.py

.. note::
    
    Make sure to ``chmod +x run`` before continuing.
    The 'develop' step is necessary because the current package must be
    installed before paste can load it from the INI file.

``runapp.py``:

If using a version of Pyramid prior to 1.3 (e.g. < 1.3),
use the following for runapp.py::
    
    import os

    from paste.deploy import loadapp
    from paste import httpserver

    if __name__ == "__main__":
        port = int(os.environ.get("PORT", 5000))
        app = loadapp('config:production.ini', relative_to='.')

        httpserver.serve(app, host='0.0.0.0', port=port)

Else if using a version greater or equal than 1.3 (e.g. >= 1.3),
use the following for runapp.py::

    import os

    from paste.deploy import loadapp
    from waitress import serve

    if __name__ == "__main__":
        port = int(os.environ.get("PORT", 5000))
        app = loadapp('config:production.ini', relative_to='.')

        serve(app, host='0.0.0.0', port=port)

.. note::
    
    This assumes the INI file to use is ``production.ini``, change as
    necessary. The server section of the INI will be ignored as the server
    needs to listen on the port supplied in the OS environ.

Step 2: Setup git repo and heroku app
=====================================

Navigate to your project directory (directory with setup.py) if not already there. If you project is already under git version control, skip to the 'Initialize the heroku stack' section.

Inside your projects directory, if this project is not tracked under git it is recommended that you first create a good .gitignore file (you can skip this step). You can get the recommended python one by running:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ wget -O .gitignore https://raw.github.com/github/gitignore/master/Python.gitignore


Once that is done, run:

.. code-block:: bash
    
    $ git init
    $ git add .
    $ git commit -m "initial commit"

Step 3: Initialize the heroku stack
===================================

.. code-block:: bash
    
    $ heroku create --stack cedar

Step 4: Deploy
==============

To deploy a new version, push it to heroku:

.. code-block:: bash
    
    $ git push heroku master

Make sure to start one worker:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ heroku scale web=1

Check to see if your app is running

.. code-block:: bash
    
    $ heroku ps

Take a look at the logs to debug any errors if necessary:

.. code-block:: bash
    
    $ heroku logs -t

Tips & Tricks
=============

The CherryPy WSGI server is fast, efficient, and multi-threaded to easily 
handle many requests at once. If you want to use it you can add `cherrpy` 
and `pastescript` to your setup.py:requires section (be sure to re-run 
`pip freeze` to update the requirements.txt file as explained above) and 
setup your runapp.py to look like:

example::

    import os

    from paste.deploy import loadapp
    from paste.script.cherrypy_server import cpwsgi_server

    if __name__ == "__main__":
        port = int(os.environ.get("PORT", 5000))
        wsgi_app = loadapp('config:production.ini', relative_to='.')
        cpwsgi_server(wsgi_app, host='0.0.0.0', port=port,
                      numthreads=10, request_queue_size=200)


Heroku add-on's generally communicate their settings via OS environ variables.
These can be easily incorporated into your applications settings, for
example::
    
    # In your pyramid apps main init
    import os
    
    from pyramid.config import Configurator
    from myproject.resources import Root

    def main(global_config, **settings):
        """ This function returns a Pyramid WSGI application.
        """
	
        # Look at the environment to get the memcache server settings
        memcache_server = os.environ.get('MEMCACHE_SERVERS')

        settings['beaker.cache.url'] = memcache_server
        config = Configurator(root_factory=Root, settings=settings)
        config.add_view('myproject.views.my_view',
                        context='myproject.resources.Root',
                        renderer='myproject:templates/mytemplate.pt')
        config.add_static_view('static', 'myproject:static')
        return config.make_wsgi_app()

Commit message:

update for python3 and europe people

deployment/heroku.rst, after:

heroku
++++++

`heroku <http://www.heroku.com/>`_ recently added `support for a process model
<http://blog.heroku.com/archives/2011/5/31/celadon_cedar/>`_ which allows
deployment of Pyramid applications. 

This recipe assumes that you have a pyramid app setup using a Paste INI file,
inside a package called 'myapp'. This type of structure is found in the
pyramid_starter scaffold, and other Paste scaffolds (previously called project
templates). It can be easily modified to work with other Python web
applications as well by changing the command to run the app as appropriate.

Step 0: Install heroku
======================

Install the heroku gem `per their instructions
<http://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/quickstart>`_.

Step 1: Add files needed for heroku
===================================

You will need to add the following files with the contents as shown to the
root of your project directory (the directory containing the setup.py).

``requirements.txt``:

You can autogenerate this file by running:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ pip freeze > requirements.txt

You will have probably have a line in your requirements file that has your project name in it. It might look like either of the following two lines depending on how you setup your project. If either of these lines exist, delete them.

.. code-block:: text

    project-name=0.0
         or 
    -e git+git@xxxx:<git username>/xxxxx.git....#egg=project-name

.. note::
    You can only use packages that can be installed from pypi. If you have any others that you checked out via git, or locally you will have to include these in your ``run`` file (see below). Never include these editable references when deploying to heroku.


``runtime.txt``:

If your app use Python 3 generate this file with the following:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ echo "python-3.3.2" > runtime.txt
    

``Procfile``:

Generate this by running:

.. code-block:: bash
    
    $ echo "web: ./run" > Procfile

``run``:

Create ``run`` with the following:

.. code-block:: text
    
    #!/bin/bash
    python setup.py develop
    python runapp.py

.. note::
    
    Make sure to ``chmod +x run`` before continuing.
    The 'develop' step is necessary because the current package must be
    installed before paste can load it from the INI file.

``runapp.py``:

If using a version of Pyramid prior to 1.3 (e.g. < 1.3),
use the following for runapp.py::
    
    import os

    from paste.deploy import loadapp
    from paste import httpserver

    if __name__ == "__main__":
        port = int(os.environ.get("PORT", 5000))
        app = loadapp('config:production.ini', relative_to='.')

        httpserver.serve(app, host='0.0.0.0', port=port)

Else if using a version greater or equal than 1.3 (e.g. >= 1.3),
use the following for runapp.py::

    import os

    from paste.deploy import loadapp
    from waitress import serve

    if __name__ == "__main__":
        port = int(os.environ.get("PORT", 5000))
        app = loadapp('config:production.ini', relative_to='.')

        serve(app, host='0.0.0.0', port=port)

.. note::
    
    This assumes the INI file to use is ``production.ini``, change as
    necessary. The server section of the INI will be ignored as the server
    needs to listen on the port supplied in the OS environ.

Step 2: Setup git repo and heroku app
=====================================

Navigate to your project directory (directory with setup.py) if not already there. If you project is already under git version control, skip to the 'Initialize the heroku stack' section.

Inside your projects directory, if this project is not tracked under git it is recommended that you first create a good .gitignore file (you can skip this step). You can get the recommended python one by running:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ wget -O .gitignore https://raw.github.com/github/gitignore/master/Python.gitignore


Once that is done, run:

.. code-block:: bash
    
    $ git init
    $ git add .
    $ git commit -m "initial commit"

Step 3: Initialize the heroku stack
===================================

.. code-block:: bash
    
    $ heroku create --stack cedar
    
Or if you live in Europe:

    $ heroku create --stack cedar --region eu


Step 4: Deploy
==============

To deploy a new version, push it to heroku:

.. code-block:: bash
    
    $ git push heroku master

Make sure to start one worker:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ heroku scale web=1

Check to see if your app is running

.. code-block:: bash
    
    $ heroku ps

Take a look at the logs to debug any errors if necessary:

.. code-block:: bash
    
    $ heroku logs -t

Tips & Tricks
=============

The CherryPy WSGI server is fast, efficient, and multi-threaded to easily 
handle many requests at once. If you want to use it you can add `cherrpy` 
and `pastescript` to your setup.py:requires section (be sure to re-run 
`pip freeze` to update the requirements.txt file as explained above) and 
setup your runapp.py to look like:

example::

    import os

    from paste.deploy import loadapp
    from paste.script.cherrypy_server import cpwsgi_server

    if __name__ == "__main__":
        port = int(os.environ.get("PORT", 5000))
        wsgi_app = loadapp('config:production.ini', relative_to='.')
        cpwsgi_server(wsgi_app, host='0.0.0.0', port=port,
                      numthreads=10, request_queue_size=200)


Heroku add-on's generally communicate their settings via OS environ variables.
These can be easily incorporated into your applications settings, for
example::
    
    # In your pyramid apps main init
    import os
    
    from pyramid.config import Configurator
    from myproject.resources import Root

    def main(global_config, **settings):
        """ This function returns a Pyramid WSGI application.
        """
	
        # Look at the environment to get the memcache server settings
        memcache_server = os.environ.get('MEMCACHE_SERVERS')

        settings['beaker.cache.url'] = memcache_server
        config = Configurator(root_factory=Root, settings=settings)
        config.add_view('myproject.views.my_view',
                        context='myproject.resources.Root',
                        renderer='myproject:templates/mytemplate.pt')
        config.add_static_view('static', 'myproject:static')
        return config.make_wsgi_app()
